1. ls (command to list the files)

2. ls -l (command to list the files in long format)

3. hadoop fs -ls / (command to list the contents of the root directory in the HDFS)

4. vi test.txt (The vi command is a text editor in Linux and Unix-based systems. To create or edit a file named test.txt using the vi editor, open a terminal window)

5. esc :wq (save and exit)

6. hadoop fs -copyFromLocal test.txt / (copy file from one location to another)

7. rm test.txt(delete the file)

8. hadoop fs -chmod 777 /test.txt (command to give the permission to the file)

9. hdfs dfs -copyToLocal /test.txt ~/ (command to copy from hdfs to lfs)

10. cat test.txt (This command will output the contents of the test.txt in lfs)

11. hadoop fs -cat /test.txt( command to display the contents of the test.txt file located in the root directory of HDFS)

12. jps (The jps command (Java Virtual Machine Process Status Tool) is a command-line utility that lists all the Java processes running on a machine)

13. hadoop version (This command will display information about your Hadoop installation, including the version number.)

14. history (The history command is a Unix-based command that displays the command history of your terminal session.)

15. mkdir vigya ( this command will create the new directory in lfs)

16. hadoop fs -mkdir /vigya (this command will create the new directory in hdfs)

17. vi test2.txt (create new file)

18. cat test2.txt (command to see the content in the test2.txt)

19. hadoop fs -put test2.txt /vigya (command to put the test2.txt to the hdfs vigya folder)

20. hadoop fs -ls /vigya (command to see the content of the hdfs vigya folder)

21. hadoop fs -chmod 777 /vigya/test2.txt (To change the permissions of a file in HDFS, you can use the hadoop fs -chmod command.)

22. hadoop fs -get /vigya/test2.txt test2.txt( command to get test2.txt to the lfs)

23 mv test.txt /home/cloudera/vigya (command to move the file within the lfs)

24. hadoop fs -mv /test.txt /vigya (command to move the file within the hdfs)

25. du (this command will show the disk user)

26. du -s (this command will show the size of the disk utilised at the given time)

27. hadoop fs -count / (To count the number of directories, files, and bytes under a specific path, simply provide the path as an argument.)

28. hadoop fs -du / (The output will show the disk usage in bytes for each file and directory under the root directory)

29. hadoop fs -df / (The hadoop fs -df command is used to display the available and used space in HDFS)

30. hadoop fs -stat / (The hadoop fs -stat command is used to display information about the specified HDFS path)

31. hdfs fsck / (The hdfs fsck command is used to check the health and consistency of the Hadoop Distributed FileSystem (HDFS))


Note:
1. In round bracket the explanation of the command is provided
2. HDFS - Hadoop Distributed file system
3. LFS - Local file system
4. test.txt - file name
5. test2.txt - file name
6. vigya - directory name